Glance at your phone at any given time, and what do you see? Probably an avalanche of tweets, TikTok videos, Facebook updates and Instagram posts ― many of them touting a trendy new skin care product or some influencer’s morning and nighttime routines. It’s truly impossible to keep up with what’s hot in skin care (eco-friendly packaging, electrolytes) while maintaining some knowledge of what docs say is actually effective (retinol, squalane, hyaluronic acid). On the flip side, you’ll see the internet go crazy when it finds out Elizabeth Warren, whose skin is absolutely glowing at age 70, never washes her face and uses nothing but Pond’s moisturizer. HuffPost turned to the OG skin care gurus: moms, aunts, grandmas and other women over the age of 55 who’ve accumulated life experience that has only made their faces more beautiful. They told us exactly what they do to keep their skin looking and feeling luminous. Among their recommendations, you’ll find tried-and-true favorites like Vaseline and Oil of Olay, and beloved brands like Kiehl’s, Philosophy and Cetaphil. Some of the women shop at Sam’s Club, Walmart and Family Dollar, while others rely on products from higher-end brands. The one thing they all have in common? Unanimous agreement that sunscreen, exercise and drinking lots of water are essential to skin health. If you want to snag some of their go-to products for your own bathroom shelf, read on for their recommendations (and reminiscences). Darlene Oates, 60 Realtor, radio DJ and travel agent Morning and nighttime routine: Splash face with water, then apply organic coconut oil. Darlene says: “I think keeping it simple is the best way to go, honestly. I splash my face with lukewarm water and then I apply the coconut oil onto my skin. I rub it in a rotational direction around my cheeks, in the T-zone, and just get it into my cells.” Geri “Nana” Fotsch, 87 Mom of eight; grandmother of 31; great-grandmother of 14; patron of/volunteer at Ronald McDonald House, Marquette University, Women’s Care Center (Milwaukee), Operation Finally Home, Kathy’s House (Milwaukee) and others Morning routine: Splash face with water    StriVectin SD Advanced PLUS Intensive Moisturizing Concentrate   StriVectin Intensive Eye Concentrate for Wrinkles Nighttime routine: Neutrogena Makeup Remover Cleansing Towelettes followed by the StriVectin moisturizer and eye cream Once a week: Cleanses with Dove soap Nana says: “Once a week, I wash my face with Dove. My husband’s grandma, who died at age 107, she used nothing but Dove soap. And I often thought I should have, when she was still alive, sent a picture of her in to Dove, because she was the best advertisement ever.” Deb Carey, 61 Crime victim specialist Morning routine: Modesa Gentle Skin Cleanser (Family Dollar’s Cetaphil equivalent)   Olay Complete Daily Moisturizer with SPF 15 Nighttime routine: Morning products plus Olay Total Effects 7 in One Anti-Aging Transforming Eye Cream Deb says: “When I was a very young girl, I spent a lot of time with my grandmother, who passed away three years ago at the age of 98, and she looked like she was 70. Every morning, she would wash her face and then slather on Oil of Olay. So I started doing it and I have never stopped using it. One of my co-workers yesterday sent me an email and she said, ‘We have an intern coming on, they want to learn more about what we do.’ And at the end of the email, she wrote, ‘And you have to tell them about Oil of Olay!’” Gail Cagianese, 82 Mom of three; stepmom of one; grandmother of four; step-grandmother of four; former Long Island College and jazz festival queen; former print and photographer’s model; retired airline steward Morning routine: Rodan+Fields Redefine Daily Cleansing Mask    Rodan+Fields Redefine Pore Minimizing Toner   Rodan+Fields Redefine Triple Defense Treatment SPF 30    “A little dab” of Rodan+Fields Redefine Multi-Function Eye Cream Nighttime routine: Daily cleansing mask, toner and Rodan+Fields Redefine Overnight Restorative Cream Three times a week: ZO Skin Health Growth Factor Serum in place of the Rodan+Fields overnight cream Once a year: Skin check at the dermatologist Gail says: Her mom, an Irish immigrant, used to apply egg whites to her skin as a mask: “When she was doing it, she would put some on me, and there I was, 11 years old, 12. And you want to know something? It certainly helps! There are products that you can use in your own kitchen.” “We have only one life to live. Live it carefully, but enjoy it. But get a good skin care regimen, and then people who live into their 80s and 90s will have great skin.” Jan Michell, 60s Writer Morning routine: Splash water on face    Kiehl’s Ultra Facial Cream    Kiehl’s Youth Dose Eye Treatment (“tiny dabs”)   Vaseline (tiny bit, under eyes) Nighttime routine: Aveda Botanical Kinetics Exfoliating Creme Cleanser   Pause Well-Aging Collagen Boosting Moisturizer   Kiehl’s Powerful-Strength Line-Reducing Concentrate (forehead)   Kiehl’s Creamy Eye Treatment with Avocado (around eyes, on upper lip and neck)   Kiehl’s Youth Dose Eye Treatment Occasionally: Kiehl’s Rare Earth Deep Pore Cleansing Mask As needed: “One more vital accessory: a great pair of sunglasses!” Jan says: “I moisturize like crazy, I stay out of the sun (mostly) and I am diligent about cleansing and moisturizing at night, even when I’m dead tired. My nighttime routine takes about 15 minutes, including brushing my teeth, etc. It’s a pain, but perhaps it is paying off!” Sue Collier, 56 Freelance content marketing writer Morning routine: Clean & Clear Morning Burst Facial Scrub   Olay Total Effects 7 in One Moisturizer or Aveeno Positively Radiant Daily Moisturizer Nighttime routine: Member’s Mark Makeup Remover Cleansing Towelettes    Equate Beauty Night-Time Firming Cream Sue says: “I’ve worn sunscreen since my 20s. I’ve worn it every day, religiously ― always, always, always on my face. Sometimes, if I go run in the early morning, I leave it off of my body, but not my face.” Cathy Martin, 67 Mom of two; grandmother of five Morning routine: Philosophy The Microdelivery Exfoliating Facial Wash   Philosophy When Hope Is Not Enough Facial Firming Serum   Philosophy Anti-Wrinkle Miracle Worker Miraculous Anti-Wrinkle Moisturizer    Olay Eyes Eye Lifting Serum   Dr. Denese Med MD 33 Clinical Neck Treatment Nighttime routine: Philosophy Purity One-Step Facial Cleanser   Philosophy When Hope Is Not Enough Facial Firming Serum   Olay Regenerist Retinol 24 Night Moisturizer   Olay Eyes Eye Lifting Serum   Olay Eyes Pro-Retinol Eye Treatment   Dr. Denese Advanced Firming Facial Pads Once a week: Philosophy The Microdelivery Triple-Acid Brightening Peel Cathy says: “I tried the Olay retinol night stuff, and I just kind of fell in love. Your skin just feels so smooth, so soft.” Diane Holmes, 63 Mom of two; grandmother of three Morning and nighttime routine: Dove soap Diane says: “I don’t do anything. I wash my face in the morning. At night, I wash it before I go to bed. My mother never used anything. And neither do any of my sisters, come to think about it.” Shelagh C. Burke, 60 Textile designer Morning routine: Aveeno Ultra-Calming Fragrance-Free Foaming Cleanser or Aveeno Positively Radiant Brightening Facial Cleanser   Aveeno Daily Moisturizing Lotion Nighttime routine: Morning routine plus Bobbi Brown Extra Eye Repair Cream (under eyes and on top lip) During the summer: LaRoche-Posay Anthelios Melt-In Sunscreen Milk SPF 60 During the winter, for lips: E.L.F. Lip Exfoliator and Vaseline Shelagh says: “I use Aveeno Daily Moisturizing Lotion because it contains no perfume and I like the fact that it’s not greasy. I like the way it feels on my face.” Allyson Williams, 58 Mom of two; retired from Verizon Morning and nighttime routine is a combination of: Cetaphil Daily Facial Cleanser    Cetaphil Daily Facial Moisturizer   CeraVe Foaming Face Cleanser    Neutrogena Oil-Free Moisture As needed: Queen Helene 100% Cocoa Butter Stick    CVS Facial Cleansing Power Brush Allyson says: “My skin has gone through some stages. After driving cross-country last September, my skin broke out and became sensitive to everything, so I only used warm water on my face. A few months ago, I went on vacation to Mexico and took in a lot of vitamin D, and my skin immediately began to clear up.” HuffPost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Prices and availability subject to change.